			Assignment 04 (DATA 620)

Data set:
The data sets that I have selected correspond to the contacts and friendship relations between students in a high school in Marseilles, France, in December 2013, as measured through several techniques.


The datasets are available at following URL 
http://www.sociopatterns.org/datasets/high-school-contact-and-friendship-networks/


Description of Data sets:

-The first data set gives the contacts of the students of nine classes
during 5 days in Dec. 2013, as measured by the SocioPatterns
infrastructure. The file contains a tab-separated list representing the
active contacts during 20-second intervals of the data collection. Each
line has the form “t i j Ci Cj“, where i and j are the anonymous IDs of
the persons in contact, Ci and Cj are their classes, and the interval
during which this contact was active is [ t – 20s, t ]. If multiple
contacts are active in a given interval, you will see multiple lines
starting with the same value of t. Time is measured in seconds.

-The second data set corresponds to the directed network of contacts
between students as reported in contact diaries collected at the end of
the fourth day of the data collection. Each line has the form “i j w”,
meaning that student i reported contacts with student j of aggregate
durations of (i) at most 5 min if w = 1, (ii) between 5 and 15 min if w
= 2, (iii) between 15 min and 1 h if w = 3, (iv) more than 1 h if w = 4.

-The third data set corresponds to the directed network of reported
friendships. Each line has the form “i j”, meaning that student i
reported a friendship with student j.

-The fourth data set corresponds to the list of pairs of students for
which the presence or absence of a Facebook friendship is known. Each
line has the form “i j w”, where w=1 means that students i and j are
linked on Facebook, while w=0 means that they are not.

-Finally the metadata file contains a tab-separated list in which each
line of the form “i Ci Gi” gives class Ci and gender Gi of the person
having ID i.

Data Loading, cleansing and analysis:

I will be loading the datasets by downloading them (Manually or using web calls from  Python) and then scrubbing the data to get the nodes, edges and the Facebook attribute. The way the files are formatted is very raw and I will have to process, restructure the data and clean it before I can load it into a graph network. I might also need to truncate the data if it seems too large to fit into memory. 
We have a categorical variable in this data set that identifies if a student has a Facebook connection or not.  It also denoted to which user the Facebook connection is to. My hypothetical outcome is a prediction that students who are on Facebook will have higher degree of centrality.

